docs(updating): update v9 migration guide to add missing breaking changes (#4620)
ionic-team/ionic-docs: docs/updating/9-0.md

npm install @ionic/vue@latest @ionic/vue-router@latest
```

### Vue Router

1. Ionic 9 supports Vue Router 5. Update to the latest version of Vue Router:

```shell

> npm install vue-router@latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install vue-router@5
```

React Router is pinned to `@6` further up for the same reason, and this section says v6 removes the `next()` callback form, so `@latest` starts installing an unsupported major the day it ships.

### Input

#### `autocorrect` Property Type Changed to Boolean

The `autocorrect` property on `ion-input` is now a `boolean` (default `false`) instead of `'on' | 'off'`. Because the attribute coerces to `true` for any value other than the string `"false"`, `autocorrect="off"` now enables autocorrect.

- Remove the attribute to keep autocorrect disabled (the default).
- Use a property binding to enable it: `[autocorrect]="true"` (Angular), `autocorrect={true}` (React), or `:autocorrect="true"` (Vue).

> #### Internal DOM Structure Changes

Reviewer: This heading text repeats under Select and Textarea, so the built page ends up with `#internal-dom-structure-changes`, `-1` and `-2`, numbered by document order. Same deal for the autocorrect heading across Input and Searchbar. Nothing links to them today so nothing's broken, but since this PR also establishes alphabetical ordering under Required Changes, the next component landing before Input with a DOM section would quietly renumber them all. Qualifying each with its component name would sort it. Just a nit though, no worries if you'd rather leave it.

Author: Updated: https://github.com/ionic-team/ionic-docs/pull/4620/changes/b0c38a1539a3d7bf49b7a2a36b0d0574a8874d25

New wrapper elements have been added to the component's internal DOM structure to support floating labels with slotted start and end content. Additionally, the structure of the component has been reorganized, with some elements now grouped differently than before. This may introduce breaking changes for developers who rely on the component's internal DOM structure or apply custom styling to internal elements.

The following internal wrapper elements have been added:

- Added: `<div class="input-start">` wrapper for the start slot
- Added: `<div class="input-control">` wrapper for the label and native control
- Added: `<div class="input-end">` wrapper for the end slot and clear button

While the public API has not changed, selectors or style overrides targeting the previous markup may need to be updated to reference the new wrapper elements and their organization. If you have custom CSS targeting the internal structure of input, update your selectors to account for these structural changes.

### Legacy Picker

The `ion-picker-legacy` and `ion-picker-legacy-column` components have been removed.

> - Usages such as `ion-picker-legacy` or `IonPickerLegacy` should be changed to `ion-picker` and `IonPicker`, respectively. Review the [Picker in Modal documentation](../api/picker.md#picker-in-modal) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace `ion-picker-legacy` with `ion-picker`, and `ion-picker-legacy-column` with `ion-picker-column`. Since `ion-picker` renders inline instead of as an overlay, present it inside an `ion-modal` to keep the previous experience. Review the [Picker in Modal documentation](../api/picker.md#picker-in-modal) for more information.
```

I think we lost something important in this rewrite. The old wording said the path forward was `ion-picker` inside a modal, and now it reads as a straight tag rename, which won't get anyone back to what they had. Following it literally leaves you with a picker in the page where you used to get an overlay. The column mapping went missing too, even though the sentence above still names `ion-picker-legacy-column`. This is the one thing a reader has to actually do, so I'd want it sorted before approving.

### Input

> #### `autocorrect` Property Type Changed to Boolean {#input-autocorrect-property-type-changed-to-boolean}

Reviewer 2: These need the MDX comment form ({/* #id */}) instead of {#id}, per the migration in #4628. Same IDs, so no anchors change.

```suggestion
#### `autocorrect` Property Type Changed to Boolean {/* #input-autocorrect-property-type-changed-to-boolean */}
```

Author: This results in the URL becoming: `http://localhost:3000/docs/updating/9-0#autocorrect-property-type-changed-to-boolean--input-autocorrect-property-type-changed-to-boolean-`

Is this correct until a merge happens?

Reviewer 2: Good catch, and yes that's expected here. {/* #id */} heading IDs landed in Docusaurus 3.10, but major-9.0 is still on 3.7.0, whose headings plugin only understands the classic {#id} form. On 3.7 the comment isn't recognized as an ID, so it gets slugified into the heading text, which is the URL you're seeing.

Please leave these as {#id} for now. Classic syntax keeps working after the version bump too, so there's no rush, and I have a follow-up PR to sweep for stragglers like this once the sync lands.

The `autocorrect` property on `ion-input` is now a `boolean` (default `false`) instead of `'on' | 'off'`. Because the attribute coerces to `true` for any value other than the string `"false"`, `autocorrect="off"` now enables autocorrect.

- Remove the attribute to keep autocorrect disabled (the default).
- Use a property binding to enable it: `[autocorrect]="true"` (Angular), `autocorrect={true}` (React), or `:autocorrect="true"` (Vue).

> #### Floating Label Behavior {#input-floating-label-behavior}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Floating Label Behavior {/* #input-floating-label-behavior */}
```

Floating labels no longer automatically float when the input contains slotted content. Labels float only when the input is focused or has a value.

> #### Internal DOM Structure Changes {#input-internal-dom-structure-changes}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Internal DOM Structure Changes {/* #input-internal-dom-structure-changes */}
```

### Textarea

#### Internal DOM Structure Changes

The internal DOM structure has been modified to support floating labels with slotted start and end content. Additionally, the structure of the component has been reorganized, with some elements now grouped differently than before. This may introduce breaking changes for developers who rely on the component's internal DOM structure or apply custom styling to internal elements.

The following internal elements have been modified:

- Removed: `<div class="textarea-wrapper-inner">`
- Renamed: `<div class="start-slot-wrapper">` is now `<div class="textarea-start">`
- Added: `<div class="textarea-control">` wrapper for the label and native control
- Renamed: `<div class="end-slot-wrapper">` is now `<div class="textarea-end">`

While the public API has not changed, selectors or style overrides targeting the previous markup will need to be updated to reference the new element names and their organization. If you have custom CSS targeting the internal structure of textarea, update your selectors to account for these structural changes.

#### Minimum Height Change

> The minimum height of textarea in Material Design (`md` mode) has been increased from `56px` to `72px`. This change ensures consistent heights across textareas regardless of the `fill` property or `labelPlacement`, providing a more uniform and predictable user experience. If you were relying on textareas being `56px` tall or had custom CSS based on that value, you will need to either update your styles to accommodate the new `72px` height or override it back to `56px` if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum height of textarea in Material Design (`md` mode) has been increased from `56px` to `72px`. Textareas are now the same height regardless of the `fill` property or `labelPlacement`. If you were relying on textareas being `56px` tall or had custom CSS based on that value, update your styles for the new `72px` height or override it back to `56px`.
```

Mostly a wording nit, "ensures" plus "providing a more uniform and predictable user experience" reads like marketing copy next to the rest of the guide. The more useful half: "override it back to `56px`" doesn't say what to override, so worth naming the CSS variable or selector if there is one.

### Router Outlet

`ion-router-outlet` now exposes a `swipeGesture` property that controls the swipe-to-go-back gesture per outlet. This property defaults to `true` in `"ios"` mode and `false` in `"md"` mode.

#### `swipeBackEnabled` Config Behavior Change

In React and Vue, the `swipeBackEnabled` config option is now read once when the outlet mounts. Apps that dynamically toggle this config value at runtime should migrate to the `swipeGesture` property instead.

**React:**

```diff
- setupIonicReact({ swipeBackEnabled: someCondition });
+ <IonRouterOutlet swipeGesture={someCondition} />
```

**Vue:**

```diff
- createApp(App).use(IonicVue, { swipeBackEnabled: someCondition })
+ <ion-router-outlet :swipe-gesture="someCondition" />
```

#### Disabling Swipe-to-Go-Back

To disable the gesture on a specific outlet, set `swipeGesture` to `false`:

```tsx
<IonRouterOutlet swipeGesture={false} />
```

The `swipeBackEnabled` config option is still respected as the initial default and does not need to change for apps that set it once at startup.

### Searchbar

> #### `autocorrect` Property Type Changed to Boolean {#searchbar-autocorrect-property-type-changed-to-boolean}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### `autocorrect` Property Type Changed to Boolean {/* #searchbar-autocorrect-property-type-changed-to-boolean */}
```

#### Action Sheet Interface `selected` Role Removed

When using `interface="action-sheet"`, `ion-select` no longer assigns the `selected` role to the action sheet button for the currently selected option. This aligns the `action-sheet` interface with the `alert`, `popover`, and `modal` interfaces, none of which assign this role. This does not change the selected option's styling.

Previously, the `selected` role was assigned only to the option matching the select's current value. Because the dismiss role mirrors the tapped button, this surfaced in just one case: re-selecting the already-selected option dismissed the action sheet with `role: "selected"` in `ionActionSheetDidDismiss`. Tapping any other option changed the value and dismissed with `role: ""`. Now that the role is no longer assigned, both cases dismiss with `role: undefined`. Apps that inspected this role to detect that a value was chosen, such as reading `role` from the underlying action sheet's `onDidDismiss` result, should listen for `ion-select`'s `ionChange` event instead, which emits the selected value when the selection changes.

> #### Floating Label Behavior {#select-floating-label-behavior}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Floating Label Behavior {/* #select-floating-label-behavior */}
```

Floating labels no longer automatically float when the select contains slotted content. Labels float only when the select is focused or has a value. Additionally, when using a floating label, the placeholder is only visible when the select is focused.

> #### Internal DOM Structure Changes {#select-internal-dom-structure-changes}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Internal DOM Structure Changes {/* #select-internal-dom-structure-changes */}
```

Restructured:

- `.label-text-wrapper` remains `part="label"` but moved from `.select-wrapper` into `.select-control`
- `.native-wrapper` remains `part="container"` but moved from `.select-wrapper-inner` into `.select-control`
- Start slot moved from `.select-wrapper-inner` into `.select-start` (`part="start"`)
- End slot moved from `.select-wrapper-inner` into `.select-end` (`part="end"`)
- `.select-icon` remains `part="icon"` but its location depends on the label state:
  - With a start/end label, the icon is inside `.select-control`
  - With a floating/stacked label, the icon is inside `.select-end`

Update selectors that target the exposed shadow parts to account for the new structure:

If you currently target `part="inner"`, that part has been removed. Update those styles to target the new parts as appropriate.

If you target `part="label"`, `part="container"`, or `part="icon"`, the part names remain unchanged, but their position in the shadow DOM has changed. This may affect styles that depend on the relationship or layout of these parts.

Use the new `part="start"`, `part="control"`, and `part="end"` parts to target the new structural wrappers.

### Textarea

> #### Floating Label Behavior {#textarea-floating-label-behavior}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Floating Label Behavior {/* #textarea-floating-label-behavior */}
```

Floating labels no longer automatically float when the textarea contains slotted content. Labels float only when the textarea is focused or has a value.

> #### Internal DOM Structure Changes {#textarea-internal-dom-structure-changes}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Internal DOM Structure Changes {/* #textarea-internal-dom-structure-changes */}
```
